Welcome, Please Make Yourself at Home
========

Hi, Donovan here. It has been 7 years or so since I last touched my github.io page. On my old page it still said I was "expected to graduate" from UCLA in December, 2017... So obviously, something needed to be done about it. XD

The page lacked some identity, and it was rather confused. It was kind of intended to be shown to potential employers, so that I could put a link on my resume. However, you'd notice a tiny little detail... that the page really sucked (LOL). It was pretty bad. The content was very dry. I had nothing to say. Tried to list every computer language I have learned in school, but fell short of real-world experience of using them. Tried to be different and post some of my artwork, felt embarrased later and deleted them. Tried to list every little project I did in school, most of which were Flash games and... you know how that ended up. So I gave up and left this repository to rot. Now that I'm a much better engineer and have many more interesting things to say, I decided to wipe everything clean and revamp this online space into some place where I can post blogs and be a bit more, you know, unhinged than usual (LOL). So... What do I mean by "unhinged"? Well, to tell you the truth, this whole revamping idea is partially inspired by a manga titled _My Lesbian Experience with Loneliness_, a real story where the protagonist / author overcame her depression as well as her fear of being ridiculed for showing her true self. That's one part of the reason. Another part of the reason is that technology has moved forward so much in these 7 years, and it's fun to check them out! Modern browsers support many cool features that used to be a giant Javascript hassle. Now they are easy to implement and some can even be done in pure CSS! For example, such is the case with hovering your mouse over an object to make another thing appear on the screen with a transition animation. Anyway, it's nice as well to spend some efforts to make a little thing for yourself, while learning something in the process.

And thus I chose to not use any static page generation tool (such as Jekyll) and completely coded the pages myself in order to fully take advantage of this opportunity to explore what you could do nowadays with static pages... and without using major frameworks on top of that (such as Vue and React). And, you know, I can also have some fun. Admittedly, as much as I talked sh\*t about my old page, the revamped pages aren't perfect, either, and there are quite a few flaws I can't fix... Hope you wouldn't mind, though. :P

That being said, the power in my hand is still near arbitrary customization. Therefore, I have made use of it and hidden some easter eggs on this very page. See if you can find them. ;)

A little bit about myself and my personal philosophies:
* I think it's a good thing to look back and see that you really sucked. It means you're making progress. But I also understand that this line of thought is not for everyone. Some people love the nostalgia of their childhood or teenage years, and there's nothing wrong with that. I just happen to be not that type. Though I have to say, I'm extremely prone to cringe. (LOL)
* This might seem somewhat contradictory to my previous point, but I actually don't like to try very hard and particularly don't like to push others very hard. Somehow I'm definitely improving, but I'm doing it without pushing myself. And I think that's the most sustainable way.
* I'm passionate about my job as a software engineer, but not because this statement looks good on your resume. I'm a person who lives in the present. I like it when my objective is what I'm already doing. And that's why I'm doing the job I'm doing. I believe promised wonderlands are often mirage, and the nature of things are chaotic (in the mathematical sense). And therefore, things have a pretty high chance to be different from what you thought when you get there.
