The Commitment of Staying Single
========

It's widely reported that China's sort of in a demographic crisis right now. In [this blog post](/blog.html?p=demographic-collapse-a-simplified-math-model) I talked more about the math modeling of this phenomenon and why even a declining population may still mean slow resource depletion and high living cost, so you can take a look if you're interested.

If you have watched any street interviews on this topic, you'll see people citing financial concerns, high cost of living, and economic pressure of having kids as major reasons as to why people are not having kids. While those factors absolutely play a role, I just feel it's a long shot from the entire picture. But it's not a problem or bias in the Western media. My colleagues and I often discuss this sort of stuff, and they often cite the same reasons, too. However, it just doesn't explain everything, don't you think? For example, if economic and financial concerns are all the reason there is, why lower-income families tend to have more kids than middle-income families?

Similarly, if you look at Japan's demographic crisis, it would be wrong to entirely blame it on the 90's housing bubble. Japan's demanding corporate culture without a doubt played a significant role. Meanwhile, those who are morally in support of such corporate cultures would even argue that it has given Japan a competitive edge on the international stage, so it cannot be changed. Likewise, if you look at South Korea, which has a similar demanding work culture but <mark title="By a large margin, too. Recently South Korea reported their fertility rate to be as low as 0.68. For reference, Japan, which is experiencing acute problems with low fertility rate, has a fertility rate around 1.2.">a even lower fertility rate</mark>, [the growing ideological divide between young men and women](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ywtKokFjYb4) is likely a non-trivial factor that contributed to the lowering of their birth rate. These are the issues that are often under-reported. It is often hard to come up with solutions for them, too.

The ironic thing is that while China's birth rate decline likely has these "other factors" mixed in, too, perhaps even we ourselves don't want to find out what these factors are. A lot of the times people I've talked to who complained about this problem _like_ to complain that the government isn't doing enough to alleviate their economic and financial pressure, that they're incompetent in improving people's living standard. They just want to vent, you know? And it's not like their arguments don't have merits. Comparatively, China's social welfare is indeed worse off than some advanced economies. But then again, Singapore's birth rate is also low while the country has one of the best social welfare in the world, while Nigeria has a birth rate over 6. Sometimes, people who often cite these concerns do go on to get married, too, and then they get put on auto-pilot mode, and eventually end up having kids anyway. I feel like beating a dead horse here trying to illustrate this point again and again. So, in this blog post, I will focus on showing what some of these "other factors" are, speaking from my own experience. Of course, everyone has a different story, but I hope my experience will nonetheless make you see that how deep these social and cultural problems can go, and how if demographic problem can simply be solved by economic and financial measures, be it extended maternity leave, subsidies for families with multiple kids, or <mark title="Okay, to be fair, I think maybe universal basic income is different, since it could bring a change to people's way of life. But then again, a measure like UBI has immense scale, and it's a highly experimental idea.">other ways to throw money at the problem</mark>, then it's not a problem at all.

## It All Started with Gaokao

Gaokao (高考), often translated as "college entrance exam", is... two syllables that will probably evoke some very strong emotions within many Chinese people. Some treat it almost religiously. To explain it in a simplified way, for American readers, you can kind of think of it like SAT, except rather than being handled by College Board, it is handled by local and national governments, and it is much more important than SAT, because universities give admissions __solely__ based on this score. There is no personal statement, no recommendation letter, and absolutely no amount of donation from your parents that can get you into certain schools (and in turn schools rely on <mark title='...which is also why you see Chinese universities all have mandatory Marxism courses.'>government funding</mark>). The scoring is much more granular than SAT, though, as it should be. As for the subjects... math is, as you might have guessed from how good Asian students tend to be at math, much harder than SAT. Though I'd like to point out it's [not nearly as crazy as the equivalent exam in India](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9IUVbwPFwKI). There are also science subjects, which test you on physics, chemistry, and biology. If you're not good at science-y stuff, the way it used to be is that you can choose another "bundle", the arts subjects, in place of the science subjects, which include geography, history, and most exotic of all to people outside of China, "thoughts and politics", but they're pretty much all about memorization rather than comprehension, so how good you are with words is going to be less important. And there are also, Chinese and one foreign language (which used to be English), which are, alongside math, mandatory tests you have to take. Notice that I have said "used to be" in quite some places now, and that's because the exam is undergoing some reform in recent years, and some of what I said may not be true in some provinces as the time of writing.

The reform is primarily aimed at reducing pressure brought upon families by this exam. Nonetheless, as China's not as opened up to foreign culture as before in recent years, it only made this exam more important, but that's the topic for another day. Anyhow, why are some people treating it in an almost religious way? We ourselves don't often think about it explicitly, but I think some key reasons are:
1. It's easy to understand, almost in an oversimplifying manner: the exam produces a single score, with no up-to-interpretation parts like personal statements or recommendation letters, and this single score decides how good a university you can get into, which consequently just kind of decides your social standing, because it's <mark title="I think it's fair to say that even the top universities in China are not that intense comparing to US colleges. No one's taking Adderall to stay up all night to study for the final or anything. LOL">very hard to drop out of a Chinese university</mark>, and companies put heavy empahsis on which school you come from when recruiting
2. It is, in principle, fair: kids from rich and poor families all take the same exam, and though in practice regional discrepancies do exist, it is about as fair as it can get, and people are always enamored by stories of kids from poor rural families getting into top universities and thus suddenly changing their families' lives
3. It bears strong resemblance to China's long-standing "imperial examination system" (科举制度) of the past which started in around 7th Century AD, where people from low social class can suddenly get into high offices
    1. This is evident in the way we refer to the top score of a regional exam, "状元" (Zhuàng Yuán), a title given to the top scorer in the imperial examination system
    2. The existence of the imperial examination system is often cited as to why China was prosperous in the past: it is a legacy of the Tang, Song, and Ming Dynasties, while Europe was struggling through the Middle Ages, <mark title='Of course, it is worth mentioning that the over-institutionalization of the imperial examination system in Qing Dynasty is also often attributed as to why China lagged behind in the industrial revolution. Even during Ming Dynasty the over-institutionalization problem was evident, as is seen in the book "Unofficial History of the Scholars" (儒林外史).'>so there could be a little national pride in the play</mark>

And when I said "religiously", it's not too figurative, either. As I have said, the system is brutally easy to understand: scoring higher in the exam equals better future for you. And consequently, students are put under immense pressure to work hard. It is extremely common to see teachers stressing to students how scoring a single point higher will result in you beating thousands of people in the competition. So, in the name that "they should study hard for the exam", Chinese teenagers are almost universally restricted by their parents and teachers from dating. Like, to put it bluntly, it is the horniest years in your life, and you can't have a boyfriend or girlfriend. Even holding hands with a person of your opposite sex is frowned upon. Not to even mention having sex. Having sex would be an extremely serious incident. For Western readers, you may see where I'm getting at now. It's almost funny. I want to comment on how this is not too unlike some deeply religious families abroad. And I regret to inform my fellow Chinese that, as much as they probably feel that this part of their lives sucks, they're not alone on the world stage when it comes to being banned from having relationships in teenage years. Though it's for a different reason, one must keep in mind. From what I've heard at least, in Christianity, having boyfriends or girlfriends (heterosexually, not to even mention homosexuality) is technically considered to be "lust", which is a sin, and you will go to hell for committing such a sin. So religious families stop their kids from having sex, too, like Chinese parents. Though they don't necessarily ban their kids from dating. Such rules also extend to their adulthood. Religious belief is not something that's only true in your teenage years, after all. And yes, that is to say they are expected to skip the romance and go straight into marriages. Hilariously, China is not so different. [Many parents end up pushing their kids to get married in a not too dissimilar manner](https://k.sina.cn/article_6142249894_16e1b4ba6001005jqz.html). So even though we're not really religious, we end up behaving like a religious country. I should add that, it is also not too uncommon, either, to see students and their families go to a Buddhist temple before the exam and pray for a good score. Though if the Buddha were to be alive, he would probably say: "Abandon your desires! I see your desire of getting a good score is causing you so much suffering! Come to live with the monks. You'll see how you can have nothing and still be happy!" XD

Of course, none of this is easy on the kid. But Chinese parents... Okay, you know, I don't want to sound like I'm still a bitter kid whining about my parents and teachers, so, I'd say, Chinese society collectively come up with these narratives to justify such practices. They tell their children they have to make such sacrifices, and make them believe it will be good for their future. Of course, kids are usually simpler creatures, they just know they're unhappy and don't usually listen to the elder's best-intentioned "reasons", so parents and teachers find ways to phrase "you should study hard for the exam above everything else" in various ways. In my opinion, this is just slave driving, but perhaps I digress. The kind of phrasing I most often encounter, and perhaps this is quite common in others' experience, too, is that "high school is the most important stage of your life" and "you'll be freed after the exam". Many kids do absolutely believe it to be true, though. It gives them some hope to hold on to in the time when the schoolwork pressure is the most soul-crushing. Sometimes even though they don't like this rephrased narrative, either, they still believe it to be true, that the world is cruel and this is just how it works. However, when I was in high school, I had already found such narratives to be full of holes. And that's not in a small way, but in a big way, by which I mean these narratives kind of fall apart easily, even when you apply some "good kid's" logic to it. They cannot stand scrutiny. And hence my loathe for such narratives probably ran deeper than most kids of my age back then.

And by "good kid's" logic, I mean, I couldn't get a lingering question out my head back then, that no matter how hard the schoolwork, how overwhelming the pressure might seem to be at the time, what if I find university to be an even more important stage of my life? <mark title="And for this exact reason, some Chinese parents will also restrict their kids from having a sexual partner in college, even when the whole family is abroad, which is a true story from one of my freshman year dormmate.">I'm going to use the knowledge I learn in that period for the rest of my life after all</mark>, and since I will probably need to continue to learn in my career, and start to pay my own rent and shit, I may find myself in increasingly more important stages of life. So if I need to give up on having a girlfriend simply because at the time what I was doing was "too important", it means I'll probably need to give up on it for... for life, forever, I guess. So there's no such thing as "being freed" so to speak. So if such "restraints" can reward you for a certain stage of your life... Do it forever, then. It's like, you've already made it through the hardest part, so I believe in you (LOL)! Admittedly, this is quite a bleak outlook. But what probably helped me to keep entertaining this thought is that, back when I was in high school, it was a period of crazy growth in housing prices, so the widespread perspective back then, among high schoolers, was that we were all going to get crushed by the pressure of buying a house in the future.

Secondly, I think such justifications are oftentimes hypocritical, too, simply by the virtue of parents' position. To say life is like cut into rigid "stages" where you simply need to show some restraint and study hard in one stage and then find a partner and start a family in another, perhaps it's the best if parents can show that it is what they did with their lives. And it's not like I'm being a whining kid here, I'm _really_ trying to think from parents' perspective. And parents' perspective is that they don't usually have the best relationship, and that's especially true if they are pressured into marriage. In reality, there's also no shortage of people who start a family only to get divorced and abandon their kids irresponsibly. If you have heard the same narrative from your parents, just so you know that they were using it without knowing if they could strictly follow these strict instructions they laid out for you themselves. I myself have got to know a handful of people whose parents got divorced in real life. My own family also _almost_ got divorced once. But just so you know, it was not exactly as straightforward as you might think. It happened when I was in high school, and I was going to staunchly support my mom whatever decision she was going to make. But eventually they ended up sticking together, which, weirdly enough, kind of frustrated me back then. It kind of pained me to see my mom not having the assertiveness to get herself out of a toxic relationship, you know? See, I told you it would not be very straightforward. That's all I'll say for now, and we'll come back to this issue later.

But hey, I don't think you have to be a genius to come up with at least some questions and scrutinize what your teachers and parents always tell you. I think it's maybe just kind of hard for high schoolers to meaningfully think these through, given that the school is already a pressure cooker, and parents and teachers don't like it very much when you question them. Some students would like to believe in the narratives, too, so they have a bit of hope to hold on to. Some may have a faint feeling they've been lied to, but ultimately think there's nothing they could do about it, that this is simply the cruel way of the world, and "if you can't beat them, join them". As for me, of course I chose to believe that such narratives are lies, but I also felt that it would be too boring if I give in too soon. So I acted upon it. And before I knew it, I have already built a lifestyle around being single, and made sure it be longterm sustainable. As a matter of fact, I've found myself to be so productive when I'm alone, I have become reliant on it. In some sense, I think being single has actually benefited my career. Not saying it's a good thing. It would be crazy if a society demands such performance from literally everyone. Such a society will by definition have no future. On a personal level, too, clearly this is not for everyone. It just happens that I'm quite adapted to the lifestyle of being single, or perhaps I merely discovered this is how I'd innately like to live. For a decision to be longterm sustainable, it must be authentic. You can't "fake it until you make it". That much I feel it goes without saying.

## Thinking It Through

I feel so far what I've written still can't be quite distinguished from whining and making excuses. So for the rest of this blog post I'll try to lean more towards the theme of "getting over it". First, I want to stress that, as counter-intuitive as this sounds, the journey to forming a lifestyle around being single is never a solipsistic one. That is to say, you can't get used to being single by being alone. I know I have almost definitely drawn inspiration from others. Real-life friends, parasocial interactions, stories of famous people. They're not necessarily single, but seeing how they lived or are currently living their lives definitely helped me to think through about my decision. And needless to say, to truly think through about your life choices is of paramount importance.

Below I'll group what I've thought of leading a single lifestyle loosely into three topics.

### Dying Alone

I often see insults on Chinese websites that curse someone that they will "die alone". Okay, actually the corresponding phrase in Chinese is "孤独终老", which is less intense, as it literally means "to 'end' of old [age while being] alone". I don't quite understand why that's an insult. People do outlive their partners all the time, all things considered. But I guess those who think it's an insult [are probably expecting an reaction like this](https://youtube.com/clip/UgkxoeB9Za1B09bHXMku9X-JGTIsgmVYVCdB?si=Mk5cR2eFA7yh3JVW). XD

And the person who inspired me to think it through on this front is... Dennis Ritchie, the inventor of C language, who lived alone when he passed away, and many speculated that he might have been dead for a few days when it was found out. What's more, the news back then was completely overshadowed by the death of Steve Jobs. And media had to resort to clickbait titles like ["Without Dennis Ritchie, there would be no Jobs"](https://www.zdnet.com/article/without-dennis-ritchie-there-would-be-no-jobs/) to draw attention, which is, <mark title="Sure, Objective-C is based on C and was the standard programming language of MacOS and iOS before until it's replaced by Swift, but Objective-C was only introduced when Apple bought NeXT, by which time Apple was already 11 years into its inception. In the company's early ages, Apple II used a BASIC interpreter for its high-level programming purpose.">to be fair, not entirely true</mark>... But if you ask a programmer, they'll likely say the C programming language is definitely more important than Apple, since C is a very basic building block of modern technologies, and Apple, in the end, is just a brand.

So, my point is, firstly, upon hearing the news, it reaffirmed my view that dying alone is really not that big of a deal. If your body decomposes, that's just a natural process and it is at most something for others to worry about. Like, if they believe in ghosts or something. Meanwhile, I believe humans are just made of atoms. And atoms that made up your body don't go away. They just become part of something else. Moreover, nobody really "dies alone", as you'll always be remembered for what you did in your life. It was true in the past, and it's even more true in this Internet age. Though sometimes what you've achieved is not necessarily understood by _everyone_, you will still have made an impact in other people's lives. Especially when it's not understood by everyone, such impacts can be profound. Plus... Well, this is a topic for another day, but I view death as the ultimate freedom. One will have nothing to worry about after they're gone. Nothing to fear. Not obliged to anything. Well, of course, people can take this in either a responsible or irresponsible direction, but, like I said, the mark you left in this world will linger, and thus one can't really "die alone". That being said, the only things that make me afraid of dying are perhaps things that I started but haven't finished. It's just like a quote from Albert Camus, that "the literal meaning of life is whatever you're doing that prevents you from killing yourself".

### Blazing One's Own Trail

I'd like to start this section with another quote. This time maybe more wholesome to the normies. (LOL)

"Do not pray for an easy life. Pray for the strength to endure a difficult one." - <mark title="I don't know, man. JFK is also often quoted to have said a similar thing. And I can't nail down the source of the quote.">Allegedly by Bruce Lee.</mark>

And pray for the strength indeed. There are many occasions when I must invent the ways I deal with everyday stuff as I go. It's not like there's a playbook for them. In fact, even if you _are_ getting married and having kids, who's to say there's a playbook for your life? In that sense, everyone will need to blaze their own trails, even if they don't realize it.

And actually, quite often, there are things you encounter for staying single that don't have a good "playbook" for, so to speak. For example, I've been misunderstood to be gay. I mean, I don't identify as being homosexual, though I do love and stand with the LGBTQ community. But it's like... I watch tentacle hentai and all (Ahem!). And that's actually partially because I don't like seeing guys in my hentai (LOL, but for real). But maybe that'll be the topic for another day...

So how do I deal with it? For this kind of misunderstanding, I just let them go. Like I said, I love and stand with the LGBTQ community. So I don't really care being misunderstood this way. The usual dilemma people find themselves in is that trying to clear such misunderstandings will simply generate more misunderstandings. So don't. I believe eventually time will tell, and if someone asks me in my face, I'll just be honest and say I'm not gay. But to think about it, the reason I can choose to not care is that I'm fairly confident that nothing can easily change my mind. If I were to be mentally weak, perhaps I would care too much, too.

Another problem you can already think of if you're Chinese is that, trying to stay single like me will definitely run into the problem of getting pressured from parents. It's like, nowadays everyone has seen an interview where you have some Chinese women tearing up saying that they wished their parents could be more understanding and give them more time, or that they were just not prepared to get married yet, all those kind of stuff. You know what? A slight detour on the topic. In China, people often blab about how kids should be grateful for their parents bringing them up. I'd say Chinese parents should be more grateful for having kids like these. They only tear up because they don't want to hurt their parents. What if you have a "hardened" kid? Like me? When it comes to standing my ground, I'm usually not afraid of hurting others a little.

But don't worry. I didn't argue with my parents too much on this. Just one big argument. A single one. But I made it crystal clear I was not easily going to change my mind, and they got it. Though they still wouldn't give up, which is to be expected. So, my mom still tried to introduce me to a girl she thought highly of after we had arguments about my decision to stay single. But let's say, to make an analogy, if this is a poker game, then I'm the type of person who would like to win even if I show my hands to the opponent. That's the best type of winning. So I "agreed" to give it a try, but I warned her. I said there was a chance that I could make this girl commit to staying single for her life, too, shall we ever talk face to face. And, how she knew of this girl must be that this girl was the kid of one of her acquaintances, right? So I hinted at, whoever this acquaintance is, there's potential danger that this might damage their relationship with you. And my mom _still_ insisted. Like, this is how much parents just seriously can't help themselves nowadays. As I have said, by that point they had got that I'm very committed to staying single. Nevertheless, they would still bet on I was bluffing. This is like, the kind of desperation I can't even empathize.

Don't worry about how this thing turned out, though. As much as I was being confrontational, the reality is expectedly boring. We actually didn't end up talking face to face. We added each other on social media, but it was almost immediately clear neither of us seemed interested in starting a relationship. From the very few things she sent me, she was likely pressured by her parents, too. And, you know, that's just to be expected nowadays.

But you know what? It was pretty funny to observe what kind of partner my mom thinks is the best, as she explained to me why she wanted to introduce me to this girl. My mother really has a fixation on girls who are _not_ good-looking but are highly educated. Like, I don't judge people by their looks, either, but if you understand where my mom's coming from, you'll see how painfully conservative such a view is. She clearly dislikes girls who spend too much money and effort on their looks. I get her point. She makes a connection between looks and seducing men in hope to, you know, get a good life without having to work hard themselves. And having higher education, like a master or doctoral degree, means you can likely be more financially independent and, on top of that, have _something_ other than the relationship to focus on. I can get behind women being financially independent from their husbands. However, if you understand where she's coming from, you'll see the idea is laughable at best, and if I'm being really ruthless here, I'd say it's deeply misogynistic.

And I'm telling you I'm not being dramatic at all here. You'll see why. Well, financial independence is but a vehicle. It depends on what you do with it. My mother takes pride in being able to provide for the family, which is traditionally men's role. She takes pride in being able to fill in this role when the man in the house fails to. Not only that, she also takes pride in how devoted she was in child rearing when I haven't come of age, which is traditionally women's role. I don't think I need to elaborate more now. This is not a refusal to patriarchy, but active support of it. Meanwhile, my concept of women's financial independence is for them to have the power to divorce their husbands when they want to, you know? Like, financial independence is for women to kick their husbands' ass, not wiping their ass. And remember that I mentioned that my parents almost got divorced once? Frankly, I was frustrated that they ended up not to, as weird as that might sound. And that didn't come true because my mother didn't have the guts. Financial considerations were, of course, part of the reasons. I'd be lying to say it was not, but during that particular period of my family, it was not as important as you might think. My dad was out of a job back then. He <mark title="Or as what the cool kids would say, he rage quitted. LOL">resigned</mark>. And my mom was the sole bread earner, and was even trying to find him a job. But, you know, of course, there were other things in her mind. She was worried about my psyche, none of her siblings had ever divorced, and she also cared too much about gossips at her workplace. Whilst those are sensible reasons, they can't be the justification forever. Seriously. They shouldn't be "get out of jail for free cards" for men who will shamelessly exploit their wives. So, like I have said, financial independence is but a vehicle. It's like having a lasso in your hand. You can use it as a weapon like Wonder Woman, but it is also totally in your own freedom to wrap it around your neck and enslave yourself.

As existentialism has it, "we are condemned to be free". Even someone born into slavery has choices. They can choose to arm themselves and revolt, or protest using non-violent means, and, of course, it is also in their free will to choose to obey, have they not thought through about giving their lives to such causes. But if one is obeying they should know they are obeying. To glorify obedience using some moral senses and even take pride in it is simply a case of "bad faith", a.k.a. "mauvaise foi", a key concept in existentialist philosophy. And that is how financial independence is but a vehicle. To go to a faraway place, you will need a vehicle, but that doesn't decide which direction you go. So, in our lives, we must also carefully examine "conventions" and ask why they're done the way they're done and take heed not to follow blindly any leaders, authorities, or guru. I know for sure that trying to build a lifestyle around being single has pushed me to do a lot of thinking like this, but maybe it doesn't have to only apply to people who's committed to staying single.

### Dream Relationship

So... Here's a "top 10 anime betrayal of all time". To be perfectly honest, I do have a kind of dream relationship in mind. XD

But let's say this. Likely, it's gonna be quite out of whack with your expectation. Also, I regard it as the outcome of having thought things through. Or perhaps you think it's hypocrtical and that's fine. I don't want to sound like making excuses here.

And you might be thinking I'm exaggerating a little here. How "out of whack" can relationships be? Can't be crazier than orgies every day, right? Well, let's just say, if you don't agree with such a vision, nine times out of ten, it's probably difficult for you to fake that you'd agree. But let's go back to the topic of my mom trying to introduce me to a girl first. As you have seen what kind of girl my mom would like to introduce me to, I'd say, that's at best going to get me into a relationship like Fukuzawa Yukichi and his wife. Well, if you know this historical figure you'll know what I'm talking about. To put it short, Fukuzawa Yukichi was a philosopher who advocated for reform during Japan's Meiji Period, when Japan abandoned the Shogunate (or Bakufu) and westernized. He was a pretty liberal person, but his marriage ended up being very traditional. Anyway, that's something I absolutely don't want and will definitely try to avoid at all cost.

But if possible, I'd like to have the kind of relationship between Jean-Paul Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir.

Okay, these are another two historical figures maybe some don't know about. Don't worry, I'll explain a little, too. First of all, they're French (LOL, I mean, French be romantic). And both of them are existentialist philosophers. Sartre and de Beauvoir actually never got married. To clarify, they have never got married to anyone, either. But they retained an open romantic relationship that lasted for over 50 years. Meanwhile, they also both had other partners. De Beauvoir is also bisexual. Among her lovers there were both men and women. Nevertheless, Sartre and de Beauvior still maintained a lifelong "soul partnership". Neither of them were monogamous, which is partly why they never chose to become husband and wife. In fact, de Beauvoir once said:

<blockquote cite="https://www.nytimes.com/1974/06/02/archives/a-talk-with-simone-de-beauvoirr-marriage-is-an-alienating.html">
I think marriage is a very alienating institution, for men as well as for women. I think it's a very dangerous institution — dangerous for men, who find themselves trapped, saddled with a wife and children to support; dangerous for women, who aren't financially independent and end up by depending on men who can throw them out when they are 40; and very dangerous for children, because their parents vent all their frustrations and mutual hatred on them. The very words 'conjugal rights' are dreadful. Any institution which solders one person to another, obliging people to sleep together who no longer want to is a bad one.
</blockquote>

And I can't agree more. Once again I will speak from my experience of my parents' near divorce. So, you know, the thing started like this. Back then I was in high school, and one day, my mom and my dad was arguing over whether to let me participate an exchange student program, which they had done a few times by that time, but that one time it eventually turned into a big fight. My dad was staunchly against the idea, and at the height of the argument, for some reason he hit me, and then it really turned into a big physical fight between my parents. Then my dad left the house, and my mom's family came to comfort her. My mom was sobbing, telling my uncles and aunts what had went down, and suddenly my uncle pointed at me in my face and said: "Every time your mom and dad have an argument, it is because of you! They are arguing <mark title='Language nuance here. His exact words were "为了你的教育", which more directly translate to "for your education". It just kind of means both.'>for your upbringing</mark>!" You know, speak of which, just a few months ago I heard the GameLinked channel on youtube making a joke on some gaming industry news, saying it really had the "Your mom and I are getting a divorce because of you!" vibe, and I laughed extra hard at it, because I personally have this experience, and I know that the statement is just not true. But you know, back then, I was 16, society banned me from dating, so I was ignorant on relationship issues. Hence all I was feeling back then, was that my existence had been a mistake. You know, later on, my mom asked me if my dad and her had affected my psyche in any bad ways, and I said it was nothing. But the truth is, my uncle probably did the most damage. Props to him, for making me who I am today.

You know, to be fair, my uncle was probably more like going for a "your parents are working so hard for you and you should be grateful" kind of statement. You know, for all they knew, my parents were arguing over my upbringing issues. But now I'm a grown up, and do understand my parents better, what I've come to realize is that it is an excuse. Speak of which, it is quite ironic, that when I was young my parents always said that I would understand them when I grow up. I mean many parents say so. But... there's an old saying in English. "Be careful what you wish for". I think that many Chinese people don't get this insight. Because surely now I have grown up and I'll say, yes, I have now come to understand my parents, that both of them have made bad life choices that they will never want to admit, that they both have chosen a partner that doesn't suit them. I am now grown up enough to see that the root cause of their argument is not me, but the fact that they can't resolve their differences. Their devotion to my upbringing is merely a distraction. Perhaps they themselves don't even see it in this light. I mean, who wouldn't rather think high of themselves, patting themselves on the back for their dedication to their child? It's just too hard and too unplesant to directly confront your problems.

My parents got married fairly late in their lives, too, you know? So they both should be grown up enough to know how to pick a good partner, right? LOL. Give me a break. Ironically, back when I was in high school, my mom also quite often told me that high school was not the time to have a girlfriend because students couldn't make the right decision on their life partner. There's an English idiom for such a thing. "Getting high on your own supply". And in philosophy, this is a classical case of bad faith. But, no, it's not like I'm blaming them. People have bad faith all the time. Being older doesn't make you automatically wise up, either. But I think what I could blame this on is monogamy. I agree with what de Beauvoir said. Any institution that obliges people to sleep with who they no longer want to is a bad institution, and will cause harm to all sides: men, women, children. And I think, in general, monogamy is just against human nature. Okay, to hear this from a guy may have a bad ring to it, but I think mostly it is because the only form of polyamory we know of in written history is men having harems. However, when I say "it is against human nature", I mean, it is true both for men and women. Come on, women likely want to have multiple partners throughout their lives, too, and perhaps have children with multiple men, too. I mean, if you look at the nature, very few animals are monogamous. Why? Because polyamory is just better for genetic reshuffling, which gives a species a better chance at survival. But let's even say, humans are better than other animals somehow (which I don't agree). From a humanity perspective, I think everyone could also use some less control. Say, your partner's having a good time with someone other than you, but if you truly love your partner, you would want them to be happy, right? And you'll have to stay humble and know that you have your limitations, and there will always be time when others are better suited to fulfill that for your partner. I think it would be easier on everyone if everyone could all just let go of their desire to control a little bit. What rights do men have to treat women like their trophies? And why must women make sure their husbands are only loyal to them if they can be financially independent and take things into their own hands? Or, of course, if the bread earner in the family is the wife, then this dynamic could also go the other way around, too. But all in all, the reason why people become controlling in a marriage is seldom out of love. The root cause is usually something else. Pride, insecurity, materialism, most often.

You know what, monogamy is likely a practice that only arose after agarian society became more commonplace. I'd like to think of it as a distributed solution to the resource ownership problem. Many primitive societies likely didn't start this way, as they share resources more often. And if such resource ownership problems disappear we won't need such a practice. You might say it is impossible, but it's not like cliques of polyamory relationships don't exist in real life. They do. And when it's just a handful of close friends, it's relatively easy to build such trusts and get everyone on the same page. And it's also within the "possible" realm to build an entire society this way. For example, the Mosuo culture in China has "walking marriages" (走婚), where a man only temporarily visits the woman he likes on her consent and sleep with her, and a woman could have children with multiple men throughout her life, while child support is helped by her extended family. So, obviously, monogamy isn't the only way to build a society.

So, now you might be starting to get a grasp of it. As contradictory as it might sound, thinking through about my dream relationship does end up helping to add ammunition to my commitment of staying single, in that I find it's best to systemically reject marriage. You know, in this sense, I would _like_ to meet a girl who authentically have the same idea. Perhaps it's very unlikely in China, though, as I'd say the Chinese culture is very conservative and we have much less liberal elites. But, you know, one can never rule out the chance that the actual number of people who's on boat with this might surprise me, after all, such an idea is likely a thing that people will keep only to themselves. But at any rate, having thought this through means that maintaining a lifestyle of being single doesn't necessarily construe closing myself off to the world, as I have made a point of it many times now.

Truth to be told, perhaps there are also other qualities I look for in girls I may want to have a relationship with. I'm saying this because I just remembered a post I saw on a Chinese forum many years ago (and it's at least 10 years). The post was talking about how some anime-loving "Otaku" guys are hopeless in getting a girlfriend. And the post's author brought up a friend of his who said that he'd like a girlfriend like [Suzumiya Haruhi](https://haruhi.fandom.com/wiki/Haruhi_Suzumiya), and the author described how unreasonable he thought it was. And I'm like... I'm not sure if it's a bliss for this author to not have known someone like me, because his friend would have been way too "normie" by my standard. You know, I'm the kind of guy who would say Gasai Yuno is my waifu. XD

Alright, please allow me to indulge myself a bit here. Gasai Yuno is a character from an anime named _Mirai Nikki_, a.k.a. _Future Diary_, and she's like the OG "Yandere" in anime. And if you don't know, "Yandere" is a character trope in anime, where "Dere" stands for the quality of being lovey-dovey, while "Yan" stands for "[mental] illness". So, this means, the female character's mental illness come into play in a relationship. But later on, Yandere characters are often simply depicted as being hyper-jealous, which is then often just used as a comedy device. And that is something I don't like very much. Yuno is like pretty much the only character I feel that has done the Yandere trope justice. And for those who have watched the show, if you think about it, jealousy actually rarely came into play in _Mirai Nikki_, and mainly because it was a death game, and the characters always had something of a higher priority to consider, which was survival. The only exception to this is maybe Akise Aru (and funny enough, a character clearly inspired by Nagisa Kaworu from _Evangelion_, if you get what I'm saying LOL), but even then there was another layer on top of the "rivalry" because he was determined to kill Yuno since she tricked Yuki (the male protagonist) into killing everyone. So that's what I'm saying, right? In the show, even when there is jealousy at play, it always takes a back seat, and the author made it look like "tears in the rain". And that is very nicely done in my opinion. Also, I'd prefer to think that Yuno's love for Yuki is purely out of her mental illness. It's more chemical this way. XD

Truth to be told, I'm open to meeting with girls with some degree of "insanity" within them in real life. Well... To some, this statement just screams that it could end in a disastrous way. And I'll admit that it is true to some degree, actually. But, you know, I'm an adult. I know the distinction between fiction and reality. I can assure you I'm saying this not out of ignorance of mental illness but out of the understanding of it. If you can't tell by now, I myself ain't the most mentally well-being person. I understand how deep sometimes mental illness can go. And it's not like I haven't seen girls with mental issues. As far back as when I was in high school, I discovered a few pillars in my school with scribbles saying things about killing oneself over and over again in a locked-up place, presumably written by some girls in the school who started a band. Nevertheless, I thought very highly of them. They had their own agendas. That's something I feel girls in my class lacked, which was one of the best class in the school. Girls in my class studied ultra hard, they were always doing schoolwork, always taking the homework with them to the gym class and all. And they very readily believed the narratives parents and teachers fed to them. You know, those things I have talked about above. But such good kids usually don't even know they're asking for the answer for their lives to be provided to them. Of course they were working so hard that it was difficult for them to not succeed, particularly in things such as getting good grades, going to top universities, and perhaps also in obtaining a high-paying job or prestigious research position. But one thing I definitely have found out to be true is that only failure can put you in the right mindset to explore new things and really, you know, sort of surpass your own limit. To know that you could try and fail, but you will have to try nonetheless, will force you to learn how to be creative while being vigilant, and can also help you to let go of your ego. It pains me to think that some of the smartest people I've met may never gain such experiences. To quote from Bill Gates: "Success is a lousy teacher. <mark title="I think this is a word play. It refers to people having both too much pride and too much arrogance.">It seduces smart people into thinking they can't lose.</mark>" And I can't agree more.

Nowadays, everywhere I look, too, I find people to be way too "compliant". They may not have the best grades in school, but their mentality is nevertheless not too far from a good kid's mentality. That is not to say they don't have complaints about life. They do, but in predictable ways. Say, people like to complain about the economy, and by extension like to blame the situation on some government decisions. That is true around the world, but in China maybe doubly so, as it's more deeply rooted in everyone's mind that we must be better off today than we were yesterday, so tomorrow, too, will have to be better than today, especially as we feel we ourselves to have sacrificed so much. It's almost like an implicit social contract between the government and its people. And ultimately, people's complaints about the economy can often be boiled down to two things: not getting the kind of materialistic wealth they wish for, and having to work too hard. Again, perhaps there's some truth to this statement around the world, but it's doubly so in China. However, this makes people easy to be controlled. Because what most of them don't realize is that no amount of materialistic wealth is going to make them happy, and that is just the human nature: when we have something, we'll always want more. But they keep thinking that such simple and one-dimensional things like materialistic wealth will be the solution to their problem, and don't realize - sometimes don't want to realize - that happiness is much more complicated. It's even hard to prove it to be false since people often can't actually even obtain such "simple and one-dimensional" things.

So, what's the solution here? Different people already have different answers. Some keep complaining. Some seek spirituality. My answer to it is to have some madness within oneself, like an artist or musician, some personal agenda you'll work towards, to make you not an easily controllable person. That's why I like Yuno from _Mirai Nikki_. Though her goal throughout the show seems a bit mundane, which is to be with Yuki, a boy she loves for seemingly no reason, you have to understand that it ultimately stems from her pain of accidentally murdering her abusive parents... Alright, let me share some of my thoughts on her psychology here. I think her obsession with Yuki makes perfect sense, given that Yuki is kind of a weakling who has no ego. I think Yuno was actually not in need of a boyfriend, but perhaps even she herself didn't realize. She was in need of someone who could love her unconditionally, a figure that had been arguably absent from her life. But due to her upbringing, namely, her abusive parents and their elitist way of child rearing (which was only briefly mentioned and we mostly just see Yuno's mom abusing her, but nonetheless I think it was an important detail) which probably called for her to earn everything, she probably confused her feelings with her inclination for having a boyfriend (and hence I think the nature of her love for Yuki is very chemical...), and it probably didn't feel strange to her as she was used to having to earn everything herself. And as it turned out, her parents' child rearing method worked. Yuno was exceptional both intellectually and physically. And it is ironic, because her parents had made a machine, except now the machine is free and has become a monster. Given even the tiniest bit of purpose, even if it's very mundane, you see how Yuno was unstoppable in virutally everything. Okay, maybe I shouldn't take an anime character this seriously, but nonetheless, getting some inspiration from them can't hurt you, as long as you keep in mind the distinction between fiction and reality. Like, having seen an anime like _Mirai Nikki_, seeing how the female protagonist absolutely dominates everyone and is still quite a likeable character, and her dynamics with the male protagonist, it definitely does something to your notion of two sexes. It definitely made me believe girls can definitely outmatch guys and they can be cool and awesome that way.

I think I'm diverging into other topics too much again, so let's go back to talking about what we were talking about two paragraphs ago... How people complain about their lives but are still predictable. Speak of which, I want to quote from my experience of my mom trying to introduce me a girlfriend again. We did have a few message exchanges on the social network. She was a medical student. And upon knowing that I work in the tech industry, she said something akin to: "I see. So we're the same, both pressured to slave away at work." And the almost exact same thing happened again when I talked to another girl on Chinese social media. It's almost like a popular pick-up line or something. Like, I get the sentiment, but [I don't think we are the same](https://i.imgflip.com/5o32tt.png). I'm sure I don't have to tell you how I love my job. I've been careful in choosing who I work for and have been careful in <mark title='You know, grad school made me came close to taking Adderall (to stay up all night to study for finals), but I did not end up taking it, and instead I got terrible grades from two classes. But in the end, I am glad that I made the choice I made. That made me realize that perhaps I actually should "lie flat" more to make sure what I am doing is longterm sustainable, even if it means short term failures.'>regulating myself to avoid burning out too quickly</mark>, too. So far I've managed to not have felt like "slaving away". Also, I just don't do self-pity very much. Maybe it's because I never believed teachers' and parents' narratives back in my teenage years, as I have talked about, I can't sympathize with certain self-pitying issues very well, say, the feeling that one has been lied to by some authority figures they looked up to when they were young. Also, it is in my understanding that many of such issues can only be resolved systemically, which often involves one to think things through by themselves, too, which I can't really help with. The most I can do is to try to make others realize their "bad faith" and help them to get rid of it, but as long as you haven't been living under a rock, you'll immediately see the problem with it: most of the time people are just too easily offended. It doesn't help that existentialism is not an easy philosophy to take in.

That being said, who am I to shit on someone else's pick-up line, right? Anyway... If someone were to ask me what I would say as my pick-up line... And if I'm being honest, perhaps a bit brutally... annnnnnd, if I'm allowed to truly speak my mind in an unhinged manner here... I'd say, one thing I'll definitely ask a girl is what kind of porn she watches. Real or Hentai? Vanilla or kinky? Well... maybe that won't be the first thing I ask, but I'll definitely ask it very early on. In fact, I think it's the most important question to ask if you want to start a relationship. I mean, you're going to be sexual partners after all. It's like going to a job interview, you won't expect employers to not immediately test you on your professional knowledge. And also... I'm a guy so I'm not really in a position of saying this, but "girls don't watch porn" is totally a misconception. I mean, we should be more open about it, and we should all learn how to have respectful conversations talking about such topics. It's not like it can't be done. I've seen it myself and I've done it myself. When I was in US for college, the anime clubs of both schools I've been to were both fairly open about this sort of thing. In private, we would often very straightforwardly discuss Hentai, both guys and girls involved. I have experienced how such conversations can remain respectful, and needless to say, it felt good when everyone knew it was safe to speak their mind. Sometimes girls can be even more "intense" than guys, too, for lack of better words. Like, there was a girl who was a friend of a friend of mine from UCLA's anime club who was obsessed with _Euphoria_ (the visual novel, not the HBO show... thought both are pretty f\*cked up LOL), and Kanae was like literally her waifu. Well, if somehow China is so different that this is impossible, then I'll just say I don't think girls who haven't watched porn in their lives are very trustworthy. And as a matter of fact, I don't think China _can_ be that different. If you look into the artist and musician communities, you'll likely find people who are quite open on these things. Though I'd say Chinese men can perhaps work on their respectfulness. But having said that, I think girls could also learn to improve a little, by which I mean they usually play by the rule too much. How about having some "insanity" within you like Gasai Yuno or some other crazy anime character? Like, seriously. As Lu Xun once said: "<mark title="说在这里开一个天窗，大家一定是不允许的。但如果你主张拆掉屋顶，它们就会来调和，愿意开天窗了。">If you say you want to open a window, nobody's going to allow it. But if you advocate for blowing the roof off, then suddenly they are willing to compromise, and agree to opening a window.</mark>" Sometimes you'll need some literal anime character spirit to truly make a difference.

## Conclusion

You know, one time, when I told someone that I was committed to staying single, their first reaction was to ask if I had been hurt before. Like, what? Given that I'm a guy, it is as if women had to pamper men's fragile masculinity (LOL). And by now, I hope I have made it clear that people should probably be more worried about the chance of me hurting others than others hurting me (LOL). But, what I'm trying to get at is, I've been talking a lot throughout this blog, but have also been only speaking from my own experience. And my own experience has many blind spots. Say, I'm a guy, obviously, so I probably can't speak of women's experience. Even so, I have also never expected to be asked a question such as "have you been hurt before". It's just not in my upbringing. And such a question could, you know, potentially reflect a broader cultural issue, that, say, maybe the Chinese society implicitly expects women to pamper men's ego, which could be taken into account when some women made their decisions whether they want to get married or not. And without an opinion poll where everyone is incentivized to answer honestly, we wouldn't know how widespread such a consideration is, and the truth could totally surprise us. But anyhow, even though I have only spoken from my own experience, I hope I have at least illustrated what some of these cultural issues are, how they are the true culprit behind people staying single, and how, in comparison, even the more widely quoted financial and economic concerns are the easier problems to fix.
