The Teacher Who Had the Most Impact on My Life
========

The teacher who had the most impact on my life is my <mark title="In China, middle school is 7th grade to 9th grade.">middle school</mark> homeroom teacher. Well... If you have read my other blog on [my commitment of staying single](/blog.html?p=the-commitment-of-staying-single), you'll know that when I say something that seems like what a "good kid" would say, things will never be that simple... So, I'll cut to the chase. It's primarily because of two things she had said. Of course, I'm kind of paraphrasing here, but I'm also trying my best to remember the exact wording:
1. 这个社会黑暗得很呐，只有自己才是靠得住的啊 - This society is dark as heck, so you only have yourself to rely on
2. 他很清楚他到底想要啥子 - He knows for sure what he really wants

And if you know anything about China's school system, you'll immediately see how insane this is, especially the first of the two things she said. Well, I guess it's at least somewhat out of ordinary, like, anywhere in the world, for a middle school teacher to say such a thing to their students, but it's doubly so in China, 'cuz in China, those in power have a very firm grip on schools, and this grip is only getting stronger as the years go by. I mean, my high school homeroom teacher would never say such a thing, and she was a total bureaucrat and boring as hell. And it's utterly unimaginable today for a school teacher to even dare to imply that ~~"we live in a society" before [Jared Leto made it a thing](https://x.com/JaredLeto/status/1361006768457846787)~~ there is corruption and injustice out there, which in turn could be saying that maybe those in power are not doing a good enough job. So I guess I was lucky. I was lucky to be born at the right time to enter the middle school at a time when teachers didn't have to be too paranoid about saying such a thing, and I was lucky to meet such a teacher who was daring enough to say such a thing, to be this brutally straightforward. (Or perhaps she didn't think too much when she said it, which honestly won't make too big a difference.)

And surprisingly, to think back on it, this statement absolutely had a positive impact on me, in a way I find to be kind of hard to explain, even. Perhaps my upbringing already made me kind of unwilling to put trust in people easily, and so, what my homeroom teacher said reinforced that. But one way such a thought has definitely pushed me to do is to never think of human connections as solutions to problems. Instead, I seek two things: technical solutions that rely on things that can be said for sure, and a cooperation framework where everyone can feel equal to each other, while we maintain proper vigilance about each person involved. To be fair, when my homeroom teacher said that we only had ourselves to rely on, she probably had the assumption that at least the Gaokao system was fair, however much corruption there was elsewhere, but, I mean, for the statement to make sense, this assumption doesn't have to be true, either. Law of nature is the ultimate power that is fair and unbiased. Like, if something just physically can't be done, corruption can only make the house of cards crumble faster, you know?

The second thing of the two listed above was very inspirational for me, too. My homeroom teacher said it when she was praising some other kid in class, but nevertheless it had a huge impact on me in that it prompted me to think hard on what I'm _really_ after for many decisions I made. And it goes without saying this had a profound impact on my life. Particularly, since I ask myself what it is that I truly want all the time when making choices, I find myself to have become much better at sorting out my priorities than others. And it really helps me to avoid "bad faith". Say, my career choice is something that I have really thought through. Back when I was in undergraduate, I actually didn't major in Computer Science, but majored in Applied Mathematics instead, and kind of lagged behind when it comes to knowledge about programming. My parents kind of suggested that I could consider the Economics or Finance major for grad school, though they thought CS was also good, but in the end, they wished that I could keep the options open, and even suggested that I look into accountant certification. However, instead of "playing it safe" like they wanted, and split my attention, I went all in on taking as many CS classes as I could, aiming to work in the tech industry no matter what, because deep down I knew I believed technology was the real thing that move the world forward, and money at best makes the world go round. So, the outcome is, today I feel very lucky that I can proudly say that I'm passionate about what I do. Perhaps some might find it hypocritical, in that typically tech industry has very high-paying jobs. But the truth is, my first job only paid about half as much as a typical entry-level position in a big tech company, and I left my second one not long after getting a raise. As I have said, money at best makes the world go round. Simply by working in the tech industry, though, I have seen many people who are only in for the high wages, and they still burn out even after switching to a less demanding employer. So I feel very lucky that I can say I'm passionate about what I do, that I still occasionally stay up very late doing engineering and research when I find an idea to be interesting. Partially, that's also thanks to not having a girlfriend (and much less a kid), perhaps, so I have all the time in the world and not a whole lot of obligations (LOL). But all in all, I won't be doing a job I love if not for having thought through about what I really want and getting my priorities straight, while not being afraid to make some sacrifices when necessary. And the person I'll need to thank for giving me the "initial vector" that put me here is, needless to say, none other than my middle school homeroom teacher.

At the time of this blog post's publishing, it is Teacher's Day in China, and this year, I'm exactly twice as old as I was the year when I graduated from middle school. So I wrote this blog post in honor of this very unique teacher who have perhaps unintentionally had a profound impact on my life. I mean, likely she didn't realize how big an impact she had made with those words. Different people probably see them in different lights, too, but it just so happens to work for me very well. And I really appreciate the simple fact that she didn't think twice about saying them. I just really appreciate that her straightforwardness has truly made a difference for me.
